a must read for all citizens of the world	1984 is one of those books you're supposed to read in school, the kind that all the weird, geeky kids with Chuck Taylor All Stars and too much acne read while ranting about The Man. It's a well-known manifesto of those playing at anti-government, anti-establishment, brandishing about their membership cards for the Society for Creative Anarchy. This isn't for the kids that read trashy romances or pulp novels: it's not for the Collins, Grisham, Crichton, or Clancy fans out there, and it's definitely not something a Harry Potter kid is going to pick up in a few years. 1984 is depressing, it's dark, and as most devotes will tell you, it's happening right now. After all, this is the book that defines what "Orwellian" means-a word so specific in its meaning, even a spin doctor being interviewed on The Daily Show couldn't put it in a positive light.Considering my choices of literature, it probably comes as some surprise that this is only the second time I've read this book, and really I wouldn't have even been motivated to do so if I hadn't picked up a copy of the movie version of 1984 on DVD. I read the book back when I was a senior in high school-this and Metamorphosis were two works that the teachers at my otherwise fine high school just couldn't be assed having us read. I protested after reading both books myself between Junior and Senior year, and in the end talked the English literature teacher into allowing me to teach "The Hunger Artist" but it was a rather one-sided compromise, especially when you look at recent statistics. According to one report, the majority of students do not understand or value the first amendment, think that freedom of speech is too unrestricted, that the press has too much say, and that in effect, Americans are too free.It is in this environment that 1984 is more relevant than ever. Look at the National ID cards passed last week without the main media outlets blinking an eye or raising a voice. (Dan Rather, oh distrustful ally of the anti-Bush liberals and libertarians, where are you now!?) In a world where we can go from being at war with Afghanistan to Iraq in the blink of an eye (Er, I mean, we were never at war with Afghanistan. We've always been at war with Iraq. We were never not at war with Iraq. Big Brother Bush says so) and where September 11th is brandished about like a giant banner to take away every freedom known to man, the only difference between the Republicans and Ingsoc is the extent of power and religiosity. While Bush follows a god only he can hear (and really, isn't that signs of a mental disorder, having an imaginary friend that only you can hear that tells you to do things and then acting on that friend's word?) he has yet to understand that to captivate all power, he needs to be God.Of course, the United States isn't the only country with gross miscarriages of justice and invasion of privacy. In addition to China's censorship of the internet, the uniting of England with the US against the unifying European Union (read: Eurasia), there's the almost-but-not-quite-telescreen announcement system in Japan known as "The Box" to some residents and "Off Box" to others. Technology was meant to make our lives easier, but as Orwell predicted, it is only being used to impose class systems more rigid than they were fifty-years ago.On the way home from work on Wednesday, David and I were walking past Hyde town hall when we heard the bell begin to chime. He mentioned to me that the bell was given to the town by Joshua Bradley, an Industrialist and self-made man who worked his way up from a mill worker to owner. Rags to riches, the kind of JP Morgan and Andrew Carnegie American dream where hard work pays off if you pull yourself up by the bootstraps and put your axe to the grindstone-it doesn't exist in twenty-first century America. Michael Dell, Bill Gates, Richard Branson: they were born into the world they've simply modified. There was never a chance they'd be a factory worker somewhere, watching over robots as computers were assembled or working as a flight or train attendant. Donald Trump was never going to be a bartender in a casino. They were born into their class and remained there, entrenched in their wealth.In the past, this would have sent up a cry through the students and middle classes, charging the revolutionary-minded among us to action, to take our piece of the pie, to work harder. Instead, we see lawsuit after lawsuit as people who feel they deserve something for nothing become litigious instead of industrious while the rest go on with the drudgery of the world in which they live. We've become sedated by our technology, dependant on mass media and the Internet for our information. How many Americans first believed we were going to war with Iraq because of Weapons of Mass Destruction? How many people still believe that? More importantly, how many of those Americans still believe Saddam Hussain was responsible for 9/11? How many media outlets bother pointing this out?In the end, we have to look back at Orwell and realize that he knew this. He saw it all happening, saw where we were going, and gave us a picture of a world in the not-to-distant future that is depressing, bleak, and immanent. His book is more important than ever, and if you cannot believe it, take a look at the film version of the book. Admittedly, it was four years after reading the book for the first time that I happened upon the movie, so my memory of the book was foggy at best. So I picked it up and watched it with some skepticism. Surely, so much of that was changed to meet modern standards. Surely, as it is with Hollywood, the only thing it had in common with the book was the title and characters. It was for this reason I put 1984 on my list of books to read-to see how much had been changed. And to my surprise, not much is different at all, to the point that I could see scenes in my mind not because the movie colored my perception (as the film version of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest did, so that reading the book is nearly impossible) but because it was so accurate.In the end, there was no need for them to change, modernize, or update 1984 because it was spot-on. This is a book that is too important to change, and far to relevant to be relegated to dusty bookshelves in the unused school libraries of the United States, or anywhere else in the world for that matter. It is a book that needs to be read, not banned as it has been in some places. If you didn't read this in school, I urge-no, implore-you to read it now. Even if you did read it in school, a good re-read is always enjoyable and considering the way technology and government are evolving, there's no better or more pertinent time than now.
