A Negative Utopia [Contains Spoilers]	George Orwell's classic novel, 1984, is set in a grim world where life is stripped down to its basis. Winston Smith, the main charachter, is just one of many Outer Party members, those who live under the support of the government, but also live under many government restrictions. The government controls everything, and Big Brother sits at the top of a totalitarian society. In the mind of Winston, Big Brother watches all. Winston differs from many of the Outer Party in the fact that he remembers the past. He can recall that years earlier, Oceania, the massive third of the world formed by the Americas, Australasia, and Airstrip One(Great Britain), was at war with Eastasia, another massive sect of the globe. Yet, in the year 1984, Oceania wars with Eurasia, and has always warred with Eurasia. The Government, enforced by the Thought Police, controls even the past. Any history is changed in accordance with current events. If Oceania is at war with Eurasia, it has always been at war with Eurasia. Any evidence that suggests otherwise is destroyed at once.Winston slowly becomes aware of the wrongdoings of the Party, and seeks out ways to defy it. He first purchases a diary and begins writing in it, which, although not directly forbidden, is an act of thoughtcrime. He even subconsciously writes pages of the phrase "DOWN WITH BIG BROTHER". As his awareness progresses, he takes increasing risks. He returns to the store where he purchased the diary, and buys a piecce of coral encased in glass. This makes him feel connected to the beauty of the past. The largest of these risks is his secret love affair with another Party member. He is later contacted by a man by the name of O'Brian, and inner party member. Winston and his lover meet with this cryptic figure and discuss a secret rebellion called the Brotherhood. Winston and Julia immediately join in the hope of bringing the Party to its knees.All in all, this book expresses Orwells deep fear of what the world is becoming. In this grim novel, war is constant, and neverending. I would imagine that is what the outcome of World War II would seem like. It also expresses the fear of a totalitarian rule that strips life down to its bare essentials. The Party tries to make this seem like a benefit for the entire society, but in reality, all the Party wants is the power to stay in power. It is almost a grim prediction of the rise of communism. The government, in essence, is almost similar to that of the Soviet Union. This everlasting war can easily be compared to the Cold War. This nearly prophetic view of the future presents an interesting view of society, and therefore is a must read.
