Of course it's not true...real stories never are	I'm always struck by the dichotomous reactions to 1984. Some will claim it's brilliantly written, others that it's horribly written. Some paint it as an attack on socialism, others as a brilliant satire of modern republican democracy. I find it utterly terrifying if only because its ideas run further into the fabric of our society than most people know: that because there are no posters for Ingsoc on the walls they assume there is not one stamped indelibly in their mind.Or, to put the point lucidly, the horror of 1984 isn't the telescreens and rocket bombs, nor is it even the Thought Police. The horror is the idea, and the idea is still being fought against even today.I suppose first of all I should consider the writing. It's fantastic. It's subtle. It's appropriate. From the very first sentence 'the clock struck thirteen' the reader is informed something is very *wrong* here. Clocks do not strike thirteen: they strike twelve. It's as common as green lights meaning go. From the very beginning an undercurrent of wrongness is present. Orwell also maintains the difficult proposition of keeping his writing limited to the point of view of Winston while at the same time trying to explain enough of his dystopia to make it plausible and whole.Second, its 'point'. Well, despite the unfortunate name given, Ingsoc (or 'English Socialism') is no more proper socialism than it is facism, or republicanism. All three rely on a precariously perched ruling class and a shortage of the necessities of life. Unfortunately too many were influenced by the satire of 'Animal Farm' and its seemingly obvious parallels to the Soviet Union (try this fun game: the old pig is not Lenin but Franklin. Snowball, rather than Trotsky, is Jefferson and his ideological children. Napoleon is not Stalin but Alexander Hamilton. Insert names as needed. The true genius of 'Animal Farm' is that its archetypes can be filled by the proper people/ideologies of almost any modern government.) This book isn't about the Soviet Union. The SU is, if anything, infinitely preferable.Orwell is attempting to make the point (further explained in his essay 'Homage to Catalonia') that all government has that awful potential, and each is as likely to slide into totalitarianism as another. Those who say the book is an attack on communism area) woefully misinformed: the society depicted in 1984 bears little or no relation to communism or socialism beyond the communal obligation, and this obligation is not to one's fellow man as in proper socialism but to the state, and is then fascism or republican democracy if it is anything, andb) naive if they believe that the fall of the Soviet Union makes the book's ideas irrelevant. Orwell observed more than once that no government is inherently 'better' than any other. Anyone who says of communism "Well, it failed in the Soviet Union, didn't it? That proves it didn't work!" might well look towards Athens, Rome, France, Germany, and countless other countries where democracy failed even more spectacularly. Any government can fail at any time in any place given the proper conditions. Democracy can collapse. Monarchs can be overthrown. Fascists can be defeated. Communists can be glasnosted out of existence. Orwell observes the Marxist idea that a distribution of wealth, even if still geared towards the wealthiest one percent, would still proportionately increase the standard of living of the average person to the point where they would realize the Highs are superflous appendages, the appendices and vestigial lower ribs of the social body.Totalitarianism, Orwell argues, exists at the core of all governments and, despite the best intentions of its rulers, a government is almost a living entity in and of itself, and will naturally seek to aggregate as much power to itself as possible. Whether one is ruled by an absolute monarch or a representative body this tendency remains.Perhaps the most terrifying moment occurs within the reader: when we realize that Winston Smith is a journalist, and moreso clearly a writer in the purest sense. In the world of 1984, he is what the writer has become. This is what our noble dreamers, our Shakespeares and our Platos, have been reduced to. This is what all of the words come to.Nevertheless, Winston *is* a writer. We see this in his utterly irrational need to keep his journal, to write down his thoughts, in the face of certain punishment. Perhaps a projection of Orwell himself, Winston is a writer who exemplifies all of those other doomed souls who died impoverished, unnoticed, unable to break their addiction to putting the inside of their heads down on paper. We see the horrible things 1984 has done to the writer, and the journalist, made him a heretic, a newspaperman who fabricates lies and destroys the truth.Seen in this light, Newspeak becomes all the more horrific: by destroying the very tools a writer might use, Orwell sees the death of revolution.To those who were forced to read this book for school: god forbid. I'm sorry you were forced into something which is the solemn obligation of any citizen, that to be informed and as educated as possible. It is the implicit guarantee of any democracy or socialist state that one's fellow man (or woman) is dedicated to making the most of themselves, not vegging out wringing their hands over American Idol. If it is painful or sophomoric to you it is because you are painfully sophomoric yourself, and have as little right to your freedom as the air you breathe (which is what brings about dystopia more surely than anything, the willful, arrogant ignorance of the people.) Not only do you not know, you don't care you don't know. Ignorance is worn like a badge of honor, and if totalitarianism comes I can hardly say you do not deserve every agony of it.It is a book not only of but about ideas, and its only optimism is given in Orwell's comments on human nature: that a human naturally rebels against such a state, and it may take a thousand years to destroy it, even if it is only to repeat the mistake again for another thousand. But in those moments between the terrible millenia are the small spaces allowed for such things as simple human kindness and decency, which is the surest remedy to totalitarianism as anything. When humans cease to be competitors for the material they find an almost limitless capacity for mutual understanding.Anyone interested in other dystopia would be advised to read Zamyatin's 'We', Miller's 'A Canticle for Leibowitz', and perhaps the best of all if only for its brutal insight and simplicity, Platonov's 'The Foundation Pit'.
