Not a book about a political system - a book about people	I read 1984 in high school, probably around 1987 or so. I had wanted to read 1984 for several years, because in the actual year of 1984 (I was 13 at the time), there was a lot of media coverage about how Orwell's ":prediction": had not come true. (This of course is a coy oversimplification of the book.)It was very strange to me at the time: I found their repeated, incessant insistence that 1984 was pure fiction suspicious. I could not help but think: Why the hell are these people so defensive?When I read 1984 it did not strike me as particularly ":true,": metaphorically or otherwise. I was young and had less than five years of political study. While I could see parallels between our society and Orwell's, those parallels seemed few.However, over the last 20 years, 1984 has seemed more and more truthful. A lot of my perception of this book's truthfulness stems not simply from politics, but from watching how people behave. From high school ":cliques": to office politics to the motions of the biggest political players today, Orwell depicted how people act. He depicted the way people twist the truth and abuse power, the way they manipulate words and ideas in order to portray guilt, or innocence. And he depicted just how horribly people in large groups are capable of being. Just because he used exaggerated, fantastic metaphors does not change the simple essence of human behaviors in his stories.1984 is not a book about Communists, Capitalists or any other political system. It was not even written, at the time, to be a book about ":the future.": 1984 is a book about people. Not ":Capitalist People": or ":Socialist People.": All people, and human nature, and the corruption and darkness and manipulation all people are capable of. It is specifically about how people behave in industrial / post industrial / media saturated / disinformation age culture. It is about how people - of any political party, whether democrat, republican, socialist or libertarian - manipulate facts, words, ideas, and ultimately, each other. It is, in this sense, the best kind of book. Because what 1984 is about was true when it was written, has been true since, and apparently will be true for decades to come. It is not just true in the United States, or China, or Russia. It's true everywhere. In this sense the story remains a relevant and important read.If you reduce the book to nothing more than a fable about YOUR political enemies and how bad THEIR system is, you are precisely the sort of manipulator - or dupe - that Orwell wrote about. And if you deny that your culture, your political party, or your agenda is part of this process, you blind yourself precisely as Orwell's characters did.And in doing so, you emphasize Orwell's points very well.
